"x"
"1" "['NOTE 6', 'DEBT, CREDIT FACILITIES, AND COMMITMENTS ANDCONTINGENCIES', 'DebtOutstanding', 'At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the company had thefollowing debt outstanding.', 'Effective ', 'as of December 31 (in millions)', 'interestrate', '1', '2009', '2', '2008', '2', '4.75% notes due 2010', '4.9%', '$', '500', '$', '499', 'Variable-rate loan due 2010', '0.8%', '180', '177', 'Variable-rate loan due 2012', '0.6%', '157', '155', '4.0% notes due 2014', '4.2%', '350', '??', '4.625% notes due 2015', '4.8%', '641', '675', '5.9% notes due 2016', '6.0%', '615', '661', '5.375% notes due 2018', '5.5%', '499', '499', '4.5% notes due 2019', '4.7%', '498', '??', '6.625% debentures due 2028', '6.7%', '136', '154', '6.25% notes due 2037', '6.3%', '499', '499', 'Other', '??', '47', '49', 'Total debt and capital lease obligations', '4,122', '3,368', 'Current portion', '(682)', '(6)', 'Long-term portion', '$', '3,440', '$', '3,362', '1', 'Excludes the effect of related interest rate swaps, asapplicable.', '2', ' Book values include discounts, premiums and adjustments relatedto hedging instruments, as applicable.', 'In addition, as further discussed below, the company hadshort-term debt totaling $29 million at December 31,2009 and $388 million at December 31, 2008.', 'SignificantDebt Issuances', 'In February 2009, the company issued $350 million of seniorunsecured notes, maturing in March 2014 and bearing a 4.0%coupon rate. In August 2009, the company issued$500 million of senior unsecured notes, maturing in August2019 and bearing a 4.5% coupon rate. In May 2008, the companyissued $500 million of senior unsecured notes, maturing inJune 2018 and bearing a 5.375% coupon rate. In December 2007,the company issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes,maturing in December 2037, and bearing a 6.25% coupon rate. Thenotes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the company??option, subject to a make-whole redemption premium. In addition,during 2008, the company issued commercial paper, of which$200 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008,with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.55%. There was nocommercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2009.', 'The net proceeds of the debt issuances noted above were used forgeneral corporate purposes, including the repayment of$200 million of outstanding commercial paper in 2009 andfor the settlement of cross-currency swaps in 2008. SeeNote 7 for further information regarding the settlement ofcross-currency swaps. The debt instruments include certaincovenants, including restrictions relating to the company??creation of secured debt.', 'FutureMinimum Lease Payments and Debt Maturities', 'Debt maturities', 'Operating', 'and capital', 'as of and for the years ended December 31 (in millions)', 'leases', 'leases', '2010', '$', '163', '$', '682', '2011', '138', '7', '2012', '115', '161', '2013', '100', '4', '2014', '92', '358', 'Thereafter', '194', '2,867', 'Total obligations and commitments', '802', '4,079', 'Interest on capital leases, discounts and premiums, andadjustments', 'relating to hedging instruments', 'n/a', '43', 'Long-term debt and lease obligations', '$', '802', '$', '4,122', 'CreditFacilities', 'The company had $2.8 billion of cash and equivalents atDecember 31, 2009. The company?? primary revolvingcredit facility has a maximum capacity of $1.5 billion andmatures in December 2011. As of December 31, 2009, therewere no outstanding borrowings under this facility. The companyalso maintains a Euro-denominated credit facility with a maximumcapacity of approximately $435 million at December 31,2009, which matures in January 2013. As of December 31,2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.As of December 31, 2008, there was $164 millionoutstanding under this facility, which was repaid in 2009. Thecompany?? facilities enable the company to borrow funds onan unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and containvarious covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capitalratio. At December 31, 2009, the company was in compliancewith the financial covenants in these agreements. Thenon-performance of any financial institution supporting eitherof the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity ofthese facilities by each institution?? respectivecommitment.', 'The company also maintains other credit arrangements, whichtotaled $454 million at December 31, 2009 and$409 million at December 31, 2008. Borrowingsoutstanding under these facilities totaled $29 million atDecember 31, 2009 and $24 million at December 31,2008.', 'Leases', 'The company leases certain facilities and equipment undercapital and operating leases expiring at various dates. Theleases generally provide for the company to pay taxes,maintenance, insurance and certain otheroperating costs of the leased property. Most of the operatingleases contain renewal options. Operating lease rent expense was$172 million in 2009, $161 million in 2008 and$157 million in 2007.', 'CollaborativeArrangements', 'On January 1, 2009, the company adopted a new accountingstandard related to collaborative arrangements, which wasrequired to be applied retrospectively to all periods presentedfor all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effectivedate. The adoption of this new standard did not result in achange to the company?? historical consolidated financialstatements.', 'In the normal course of business, Baxter enters intocollaborative arrangements with third parties. Certain of thesecollaborative arrangements include joint operating activitiesinvolving active participation by both partners, where bothBaxter and the other entity are exposed to risks and rewardsdependent on the commercial success of the activity. Thesecollaborative arrangements exist in all three of thecompany?? segments, take a number of forms and structures,principally pertain to the joint development andcommercialization of new products, and are designed to enhanceand expedite long-term sales and profitability growth.', 'The collaborative arrangements can broadly be grouped into twocategories: those relating to new product development, and thoserelating to existing commercial products.', 'NewProduct Development Arrangements', 'The company?? joint new product development andcommercialization arrangements generally provide that Baxterlicense certain rights to manufacture, market or distribute aspecified technology or product under development. Baxter??consideration for the rights generally consists of somecombination of up-front payments, ongoing R&D costreimbursements, royalties, and contingent payments relating tothe achievement of specified pre-clinical, clinical, regulatoryapproval or sales milestones. Joint steering committees oftenexist to manage the various stages and activities of thearrangement. Control over the R&D activities may be sharedor may be performed by Baxter. Baxter generally controls thecommercialization phase, sometimes purchasing raw materials fromthe collaboration partner.', 'During the development phase, Baxter?? R&D costs areexpensed as incurred. These costs may include R&D costreimbursements to the partner, as well as up-front and milestonepayments to the partner prior to the date the product receivesregulatory approval. Milestone payments made to the partnersubsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as otherintangible assets and amortized to cost of sales over theestimated useful life of the related asset. Royalty payments areexpensed as cost of sales when they become due and payable. Anypurchases of raw materials from the partner during thedevelopment stage are expensed as R&D, while such purchasesduring the commercialization phase are capitalized as inventoryand recognized as cost of sales when the related finishedproducts are sold. Baxter generally records the amount invoicedto the third-party customer for the finished product as sales,as Baxter is the principal and primary obligor in thearrangement.', 'Payments to collaborative partners classified in cost of saleswere not significant in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Payments tocollaborative partners classified in R&D expense were 6%,7% and 8% of total R&D expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007,respectively. The payments principally related to thedevelopment of tissue repair products, longer-acting forms ofblood clotting proteins to treat hemophilia and a home HD device.', 'CommercialProduct Arrangements', 'The company?? commercial product collaborative arrangementsgenerally provide for a sharing of manufacturing, marketing ordistribution activities between Baxter and the partner, alongwith a sharing of the related profits. The nature and split ofthe shared activities varies, sometimes split by type ofactivity and sometimes split by geographic area.', 'The entity that invoices the third-party customer is generallythe principal and primary obligor in the arrangement andtherefore records the invoiced amount as a sale. Cost-sharingpayments are generally recorded in cost of sales. Baxter??payments to partners under these types of arrangements were lessthan 1% of total cost of sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007.', 'OtherCommitments and Contingencies', 'JointDevelopment and Commercialization Arrangements', 'In addition to the new product development arrangementsdiscussed above, the company has entered into certain otherarrangements which include contingent milestone payments. AtDecember 31, 2009, the company?? unfunded milestonepayments associated with all of its arrangements totaled$812 million. This total excludes any contingent royalties.Based on the company?? projections, any contingent paymentsmade in the future will be more than offset over time by theestimated net future cash flows relating to the rights acquiredfor those payments. The majority of the contingent paymentsrelate to arrangements in the BioScience segment. Included inthe total are contingent milestone payments of $220 millionrelating to arrangements entered into during 2008 and 2007 thatare discussed in Note 4. Aside from the items discussed inNote 4, significant collaborations relate to thedevelopment of hard and soft tissue-repair products to positionthe company to enter the orthobiologic market, the developmentof longer-acting forms of blood clotting proteins to treathemophilia A and other arrangements.', 'Indemnifications', 'During the normal course of business, Baxter makes indemnities,commitments and guarantees pursuant to which the company may berequired to make payments related to specific transactions.Indemnifications include: (i) intellectual propertyindemnities to customers in connection with the use, sales orlicense of products and services; (ii) indemnities tocustomers in connection with losses incurred while performingservices on their premises; (iii) indemnities to vendorsand service providers pertaining to claims based on negligenceor willful misconduct; and (iv) indemnities involving therepresentations and warranties in certain contracts. Inaddition, under Baxter?? Amended and Restated Certificateof Incorporation, and consistent with Delaware GeneralCorporation Law, the company has agreed to indemnify itsdirectors and officers for certain losses and expenses upon theoccurrence of certain prescribed events. The majority of theseindemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for anylimitation on the maximum potential for future payments that thecompany could be obligated to make. To help address some ofthese risks, the company maintains various insurance coverages.Based on historical experience and evaluation of the agreements,the company does not believe that any significant paymentsrelated to its indemnifications will result, and therefore thecompany has not recorded any associated liabilities.', 'LegalContingencies', 'Refer to Note 11 for a discussion of the company??legal contingencies.'] ['NOTE 11', 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS', 'Baxter is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, andother legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of thecompany?? business. The company records a liability when aloss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonablyestimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is arange, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, theminimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is notprobable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, noliability is recorded.', 'Baxter has established reserves for certain of the mattersdiscussed below. The company is not able to estimate the amountor range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies forwhich there is no reserve or additional loss for matters alreadyreserved. While the liability of the company in connection withthe claims cannot be estimated with any certainty and althoughthe resolution in any reporting period of one or more of thesematters could have a significant impact on the company??results of operations and cash flows for that period, theoutcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have amaterial adverse effect on the company?? consolidatedfinancial position. While the company believes that it has validdefenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain,excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the futureincur material judgments or enter into material settlements ofclaims.', 'In addition to the matters described below, the company remainssubject to other potential administrative and legal actions.With respect to regulatory matters, these actions may lead toproduct recalls, injunctions to halt manufacture anddistribution, and other restrictions on the company??operations and monetary sanctions. With respect to intellectualproperty, the company may be exposed to significant litigationconcerning the scope of the company?? and others??n rights. Such litigation could result in a loss of patentprotection or the ability to market products, which could leadto a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affectfuture results of operations.', 'PatentLitigation', 'SevofluraneLitigation', 'Since 2000, Baxter?? generic sevoflurane has been thesubject of several patent infringement actions initiated byAbbott Laboratories and Central Glass Company. The initiallawsuit in the United States was resolved in Baxter?? favorin 2007 by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit??decision that the asserted patent was invalid. In 2009, alawsuit filed in Japan was also resolved in Baxter?? favorby the appellate court?? determination that Baxter??generic sevoflurane did not infringe the Japanese patent atissue.', 'Related actions remain pending in the U.S. and Colombia. Apatent infringement action is pending in the U.S.D.C. for theNorthern District of Illinois on a second patent owned by Abbottand Central Glass. In September 2009, the District Court grantedsummary judgment of non-infringement in favor of Baxter. Abbotthas requested reconsideration of this ruling. In 2007, Abbottbrought a patent infringement action against Baxter in the CaliCircuit Court of Colombia based on a Colombian counterpartpatent, and obtained an injunction preliminarily prohibiting theapproval of Baxter?? generic sevoflurane in Colombia duringthe pendency of the infringement suit. In May 2008, the Courtissued a decision maintaining the injunction, but suspending itduring an appeal of the Court?? decision, which appeal ispending.', 'PeritonealDialysis Litigation', 'In October 2006, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, a directwholly-owned subsidiary of Baxter, and DEKA Products LimitedPartnership (DEKA) filed a patent infringement lawsuit againstFresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. and Fresenius USA, Inc.The complaint alleges that Fresenius??sale of the LibertyCycler peritoneal dialysis systems and related disposable itemsand equipment infringes nine U.S. patents, which are ownedby Baxter or exclusively licensed in the peritoneal dialysisfield to Baxter from DEKA. The case is pending in the U.S.D.C.for the Northern District of California with a trial anticipatedin mid-2010.', 'HemodialysisLitigation', 'Since April 2003, Baxter has been pursuing a patent infringementaction against Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. forinfringement of certain Baxter patents. The patents coverFresenius??2008K hemodialysis instrument. In 2007, thecourt entered judgment in Baxter?? favor holding thepatents valid and infringed, and a jury assessed damages at$14 million for past sales only. On April 4, 2008, theU.S.D.C. for the Northern District of California grantedBaxter?? motion for permanent injunction, grantedBaxter?? request for royalties on Fresenius??sales ofthe 2008K hemodialysis machines during a nine-month transitionperiod before the permanent injunction took effect, and granteda royalty on disposables. On September 10, 2009, theappellate court affirmed Fresenius??liability forinfringing valid claims of Baxter?? main patent,invalidated certain claims of other patents, and remanded thecase to the district court to finalize the scope of theinjunction and the amount of damages owed to Baxter. In November2009, the appellate court denied Fresenius??petition forre-hearing of the appeal. In January 2010, Fresenius consentedto reentry of the injunction and a hearing on the royalty rateis expected to be set for the second quarter of 2010.', 'Other', 'In October 2004, a purported class action was filed in theU.S.D.C. for the Northern District of Illinois against Baxterand its current Chief Executive Officer and then current ChiefFinancial Officer and their predecessors for alleged violationsof the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, asamended. Plaintiff alleges that these defendants, along with theAdministrative and Investment Committees of the company??401(k) plans, breached their fiduciary duties to the planparticipants by offering Baxter common stock as an investmentoption in each of the plans during the period of January 2001 toOctober 2004. In March 2006, the trial court certified a classof plan participants who elected to acquire Baxter common stockthrough the plans between January 2001 and the present. In April2008, the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit deniedBaxter?? interlocutory appeal and upheld the trialcourt?? denial of Baxter?? motion to dismiss. OnSeptember 28, 2009, the trial court partially grantedBaxter?? motion for judgment on the pleadings, dismissingclaims related to the 2004 time-frame. Fact discovery has beencompleted in this matter and expert discovery is proceeding. Atrial date is currently scheduled for April 2010.', 'On October 12, 2005 the United States filed a complaint inthe U.S.D.C. for the Northern District of Illinois to effect theseizure of COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO infusion pumps that were on holdin Northern Illinois. Customer-owned pumps were not affected. OnJune 29, 2006, Baxter Healthcare Corporation entered into aConsent Decree for Condemnation and Permanent Injunction withthe United States to resolve this seizure litigation. Additionalthird-party claims may be filed in connection with the COLLEAGUEmatter. In September 2009, the company received a subpoena fromthe Office of the United States Attorney of the NorthernDistrict of Illinois requesting production of documents relatingto the COLLEAGUE infusion pump. The company is fully cooperatingwith the request.', 'The company is a defendant, along with others, in elevenlawsuits brought in various U.S. federal courts allegingthat Baxter and certain of its competitors conspired to restrictoutput and artificially increase the price of plasma-derivedtherapies since 2004. The complaints attempt to state a claimfor class action relief and in some cases demand treble damages.These cases have been consolidated for pretrial proceedingsbefore the U.S.D.C. for the Northern District of Illinois.', 'In connection with the recall of heparin products in the UnitedStates, approximately 650 lawsuits, some of which are purportedclass actions, have been filed alleging that plaintiffs sufferedvarious reactions to a heparin contaminant, in some casesresulting in fatalities. In June 2008, a number of these federalcases wereconsolidated in the U.S.D.C. for the Northern District of Ohiofor pretrial case management under the Multi District Litigationrules. A trial date for the first of these cases is scheduledfor early 2011. In September 2008, a number of state court caseswere consolidated in Cook County, Illinois for pretrial casemanagement, with a scheduled trial date for the first of thesecases in January 2011. Discovery is ongoing with respect tothese matters.', 'The company is a defendant, along with others, in less than adozen lawsuits which allege that Baxter and other defendantsmanipulated product reimbursements by, among other things,reporting artificially inflated average wholesale prices forMedicare and Medicaid eligible drugs. The cases have beenconsolidated for pretrial purposes before the U.S.D.C. for theDistrict of Massachusetts. In April 2008, the courtpreliminarily approved a class settlement resolving MedicarePart B claims and independent health plan claims againstBaxter and others, which had previously been reserved for by thecompany. Final approval of this settlement is expected in thefirst quarter of 2010. Baxter has also resolved a number ofother cases brought by state attorneys general and otherplaintiffs. A small number of lawsuits against Baxter brought byrelators, state attorneys general and New York entities remainwhich seek unspecified damages, injunctive relief, civilpenalties, disgorgement, forfeiture and restitution. Variousstate and federal agencies are conducting civil investigationsinto the marketing and pricing practices of Baxter and otherswith respect to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Theseinvestigations may result in additional cases being filed.', 'Baxter currently is a defendant in a number of lawsuits andsubject to additional claims brought by individuals who havehemophilia and their families, all seeking damages for injuriesallegedly caused by anti-hemophilic factor concentrates VIII orIX derived from human blood plasma (factor concentrates)processed by the company and other acquired entities from thelate 1970s to the mid-1980s. The typical case or claim allegesthat the individual was infected with the HIV or HCV virus byfactor concentrates that contained one or both viruses. None ofthese cases involves factor concentrates currently processed bythe company. Baxter and other defendants have announced asettlement offer with respect to these claims. The fullyreserved settlement is contingent on receiving acceptance from asignificant percentage of the claimants by early 2010.']"
